---
layout: post
title:  Conflict - Everyone Has 'That' Roommate
date:   2015-04-19
categories: jekyll update
---
I am not a very confrontational person, in fact I would consider myself a person that avoids conflict at all costs. I tend to cater to the person creating the conflict in order to get it resolved more quickly. I know that this is probably not the most effective way of handling conflict and I really need to work on facing conflict head on.

A particular conflict that sticks out in my mind occurred back in my sophomore year of college. I had three roommates at the time, one of which grew more and more distant from the rest of us as the year went on. This particular roommate stopped going to class and started keeping very strange hours. He would sleep all day and stay up all night. Now, I’m not one to tell someone how to live their life, but he always seemed to make a significant amount of noise when I was trying to study late at night or get a good nights rest before a big test. My other roommates felt the same way, especially the one that had to share a wall with him.

After a few weeks of him disturbing everyone when they were looking for peace and quiet, we were all fed up. It made us angry that he expected us to keep quiet while he was still sleeping at 2pm, but wouldn’t grant us the same courtesy at midnight. We decided to confront him together. My roommates and I sat him down one day and told him that we were sick and tired of him playing the same damn song over and over when everyone else was trying to sleep. I normally would have tried to soften the blow so his feelings wouldn’t be hurt, but I had had enough of him feeling that his rest was more important than my own. He was defensive at first, as most people are when the are confronted by a group of people, but eventually accepted that he wasn’t being the best roommate. He agreed to not play his guitar so late anymore and we agreed that we would continue to be respectful of his odd sleeping hours.

If I could go back and do it all over again, I would have stopped myself from living with him in the first place. In all seriousness though, I think my roommates and I handled the situation well. We may have come after him a bit strong, but I think that was the only way he was going to understand that it was truly upsetting us. This situation taught me how other people deal with a particular conflict and helped me realize that it is OK to just be upfront with someone. If they are doing something that makes you feel disrespected, they may never realize it unless you tell them directly. As I said before, I am still admittedly bad at confrontation, but it is something that I am working on.