---
layout: post
title:  Pairing is Caring - The Pair Apparent
date:   2015-03-28
categories: jekyll update
---
I’ll be the first to admit that I haven’t had much pairing experience prior to DBC. At my current job, I work directly with my boss, but have very little work interaction with anyone else. I typically work on everything on my own and then run it by him when I’m done. Pairing on challenges at DBC has been quite a change of pace and a breath of fresh air.

My first few pairing sessions were a bit of a struggle. I wasn’t communicating everything that was going on in my head, I was silent for spurts of time and overall I just found it awkward to work that way. The best part about it though? I totally got called out on it! My first two pairs pointed out that I would go quiet at times and they suggested I work on my communication skills. That was awesome. Had they not said anything, I never would have known I was doing anything wrong. I would have kept going silent in all my subsequent pairing sessions and everyone probably would have thought I was a weirdo. But, they said it and I took their advice and worked on it. I talk out absolutely everything I am doing when I am with a pair now. My pairing sessions are so much more organic and I feel that the work produced has been positively effected by this.

I have a tendency to want to be in control all the time. Boy was it a shocker for me when I navigated in my first pairing session… Nothing in life is more frustrating than knowing what needs to be done, but not being able to communicate effectively enough for your pair to put your ideas onto the screen. I had to fight the urge to just grab the keyboard and show them what I meant, but I knew that kind of defeated the purpose. So I took a deep breath and tried to communicate what I meant in a different way. It may take more time at first, but you start to pick up on what people understand and it makes it easier to explain the next time around.

When you come from a profession that isn’t content creation oriented, getting a full program to run effectively is such a great feeling. There it is on the screen, something you built with your hands that actually does something cool. That feeling is even better when you are in a pair. Its similar to video games. If you beat a game on your own, it’s cool and all but is there a better feeling than when you down a boss for the first time with your guild and everyone shouts over the voice com? That’s what it feels like to finish a challenge with a pair and I love it!

DBC tells us to give feedback that is actionable, specific and kind (A.S.K.). Kind? That’s easy, I’m from the midwest. We’re basically Canadian. Specific? Got that too, I work in equity research. Nobody listens to the vague guy. Actionable? OK, this is where it gets tricky. Everyone I am pairing with is on the same level or above me in terms of programming knowledge. It’s tough to figure out what you should tell them. Again, it’s just something I needed practice with. I started off by giving advice in terms of interacting with a pair or slowing down the tempo. I’ve since started focusing on what I can tell them in order to improve their actual coding process. While I still need some work at this, I’ve come a long way already.

So I guess what I am trying to say is that the system works! Each pairing session helps me become a better communicator and generally a better partner. I can’t wait to continue to improve these skills!
